---
layout: post
title: My Resume
---

# Yafu Tian

* Ph.D Candidate
* State Key Laboratory of Robotics and System, Harbin Institude of Technology
* Email: [16b908039@stu.hit.edu.cn](16b908039@stu.hit.edu.cn)
* Personal Website: [https://tianyafu.github.io/](https://tianyafu.github.io/)

*****************

## Research Interests

**Semantic SLAM, Object Detection and Recognition, Environment reconstruction**

******************

## Education
* since 2017.9 Ph.D. Candidate
    * Harbin Institute of Technology
    * State Key Laboratory of Robotics and System
    * Majoring in Robotics (Software system)
* 2016-2017 Ph.D. Student
    * Harbin Institute of Technology
    * State Key Laboratory of Robotics and System
    * Majoring in Robotics (Software system)
* 2012-2016 Undergraduate
    * Harbin Engineering University
    * Chen Geng experimental class.
    * Specializing control theory and computer science.
    * GPA 3.8 with 4.0 overall

*************************

## Skills
* Programming (C++, Python .etc)
* Machine learning (statistical)
* Writing hardware driver
* Data visualization (networkX, matplotlib, openGL .etc)
* LaTeX
* ROS
* Image processing & feature extraction
* Graph theory and graph based algorithm
* Control theory and state estimation

**************************************

## Awards

* 2013.5 National Air Model Competition   Second prize
* 2013.10 Chinese Robot Competition & RoboCup (AUV event)
First prize
* 2014.9 Chinese Robot Competition & RoboCup (AUV event)
First prize
* 2014.6 Mathematical Modeling of Northeastern Provinces League Second prize
* 2013-2015 Scholarship for Outstanding Student (*6 times with 6 overall*)
* 2013.10 Merit Student
* 2013.10 Master of Sports & Certified Judge Grade 2 for Volleyball

## Projects:

* 2016-2017 Robot Software System & Controller on Mobile Platform (Check my website for details)
    * In charge of the whole software system of Medical Patrol Robot XiaoBai
    * In charge of the whole software system of Patrol Robot XiaoHuang
    * Implement hardware driver, middleware, SLAM function, user Interface(QT version and HTML5 version), error detection
* 2016-2017 Fast map segmentation method based on spectral partition for robot
semantic navigation (1 SCI and 1 EI Conference Paper)
* 2015-2016  SLAM and Navigation System for Indoor Patrol Robot (Graduation Design)
* 2015.8 Neusoft Internship (Embedded system development)
* 2013-2015 Robot software system development in Control model innovation laboratory
    * Participate in writing AUV (Underwater Autonomous Robot) Controller and Hardware Driver.
    * Responsible for object detection and state estimation.
* 2012-2013 Robot software system development in Control model innovation laboratory
    * Writing aeromodel and UGV hardware driver.
    * Writing path planner and base controller.

## Publications

* Tian Y, Wang K, Li R and Zhao L (2016) Fast map segmentation method based on spectral partition for robot semantic navigation. In: 2016 IEEE International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation. pp. 10591065. DOI:10.1109/ ICMA.2016.7558709.
* Yafu Tian,Ke Wang, Ruifeng Li, Lijun Zhao A Fast Incremental Map Segmentation Algorithm Based on Spectral Clustering and Quad Tree. (under review)

*******************

## Other information
My life goal is to implement science fiction vision of advanced artificial intelligence.
And I devote myself to any research field which will help. A more actual goal is to
make robot learning and recognizing environment automatically. In past few years I
focused on state estimation and environment recognition problem of different robots
(Aeromodel, AGV and AUV).

